---
layout: post
title: Amanda Visconti 
---

My M.O. for learning DH dev is: be struck with an idea for some digital object
I absolutely need to see exist in the world (according to my own nerdy
evaluation of the best of all possible worlds)--and then break the project down
into the skills I'd need to learn to make the dream real. I don't have a great
general answer to how a person gets started in DH dev*, because it all depends
on _why_ you want to learn: ask yourself what you want to see exist, and work
backwards**.

One of my driving passions has been sharing a difficult book--Ulysses--with
more people. Joyce's novel is thick, it's complex, there are puzzles in it
people are still solving today, and you need to read it more than once to
understand everything. It's fantastic--once it starts to make sense. I got
through my first reading right when I was taking digital art courses on new
media and 3D animation, and for some fateful reason I decided it would be
really great if I made a website to help my friends read the book, too.

So, I started toward my current work with digital edition interfacing using my
then-limited knowledge of HTML and CSS (and image slices all over the place) to
make a kind of jokey site about why I thought Ulysses was awesome (peppered
with stuff like this: http://digitalliterature.net/fun/marionette.html)***.
From there, I started to have more questions: how could I customize the way the
screen looked for readers with different backgrounds? How could I make textual
annotations there when needed and invisible when not? Was there a better way to
toggle annotations on words and phrases in the digital text than the current
dense snarl of HTML tags I'd manually woven in? I started to hack together a
crude "digital edition" (a term I didn't know then;
http://www.ulyssesulysses.com), which was really messy under the hood but
accomplished--in prototype form and with the color palette of the couch in your
basement--some features I'm still thinking about in my work today. Not knowing
about TEI or digital editions (I called what I was working on a "digital text")
forced me to push the skills I did have at the time to the limit and learn some
fun hacky stuff with HTML, CSS, and JS that I might never have learned
otherwise.

About that time, I stumbled into an IMLS internship that placed iSchool
students in DH centers (MITH!), discovered the DH community, and things got
really awesome really quickly (e.g. I learned Drupal, Wordpress, Omeka, and
many more fun jumping off points for digital projects). Some years later, I'm
still working with Ulysses as one of my dissertational code/design projects
(http://www.literaturegeek.com/infinite-ulysses-intro/). The challenges of
making digital editions participatory, of designing for accessibility and
novice use and a customized reading experience, and--always--a deep enjoyment
of making weird and beautiful digital things around a book that's important to
me, and of sharing my enjoyment of that book with other readers, has been a
steady impetus to learn new ways of scholarly building.

* Okay, two things I do often say: try building an HTML page! and learn Omeka,
  because it has an impressively modest amount of code for a CMS.
* If you don't have a dev buddy to help you figure out what you need to learn,
  you're likely to get a helpful outline from most web dev fora if you post to
  the right place, ask politely, and provide as detailed of information as
  possible. DH Questions & Answers (http://digitalhumanities.org/answers/) is a
  fantastic place to ask what skills/tools you need to get where you want to
  go, as is Miriam Posner's "How Did They Make That?" blog post
  (http://miriamposner.com/blog/how-did-they-make-that).


* *A digression*: Make a basic HTML page at least once, if you've never done
  it. The enfranchisement of typing some stuff and seeing it become a Real
  Webpage--that ubiquitous object that, until now, was something other people
  made--can be really simple under the hood, and a gateway into more advanced
  web work. One of my students told me that she screamed in triumph so loudly
  when she got her HTML page assignment to work that her sister ran in from the
  other room. Make a basic webpage from scratch, at least once.

