---
layout: post
title: Connie Harper
---

I am a database designer, and user interface programmer.  My first experience
with Historians came from a part time job designing a database to collect
veteran data for the University of Central Florida's Veterans History Project.
I was struck by the fact that each time I told the professors that I could do
something, they said, "Really?".  Each time they didn't like something, I told
them I would change it, they seemed very surprised and happy to think that
something could be changed.  This was in stark contrast to working at a
software development company where the sales people demand features not yet
designed and wonder why you cannot produce them immediately.  Another big
difference when working with Historians is that they seem to be afraid that
they will "break" the computer or that they will do something wrong.  I try to
explain, that if the program is not intuitive or if there is an error we can
work together to find a solution.  My purpose is to solve problems, and
facilitate the end-user's work.  The computer is a tool used to collect data
and find relationships in the data.  It's a tool to help expand their research
to larger data sets, or to store and organize larger amounts of data.  Software
can help display results and summarize conclusions of research in meaningful
ways, and also allow more people access to those results.  One of the best
things about being a programmer is trying to put your self in someone else’s
shoes and use the software as they would.  This is especially difficult when
your users are not necessarily computer literate.  But it’s challenging and
rewarding, and if it’s not working – I’ll fix it.
