---
layout: post
title: Fred Gibbs
---

**How Did I Not Quit?**

Eventually I learned to use to-do lists properly, having figured out that I was
much more productive and much less anxious when I used item-level tasks like
"add footnote to paragraph 3 on page 24" than "finish book chapter." It's all
too easy to focus on the ever-looming project deadline rather than the
micro-steps that must be taken along the way. Yet I never find these
non-technical tasks overtly frustrating, even when they are. It's simply part
of the challenge of a larger project. I never doubt that I can do them, even
when I do my best to procrastinate doing them. 

Yet working on projects with a significant digital component, I'm often solving
stupid problems that are irrelevant to the larger project. While fighting with
data format incompatibilities, opaque tools, and incomprehensible
documentation, it could hardly be more infuriating that I spend time--as a
professional historian--fighting with technical problems that aren't part of
what I should be doing. With this attitude, roughly infinite reasons to quit
continually threaten what are otherwise interesting digital history projects. 

How do I not quit? Most trivially, I've learned that these problems have
discrete solutions that are probably easier than I realize, and in any case I
simply refuse to admit that I can't think clearly enough to solve the problem,
even when it's probably true.

More importantly, I don't quit because I realized that (re)framing my own
identity contributed substantially to my tolerance (dare I say enjoyment) of
managing my own digital toolbox. As a traditionally trained historian, I
instinctively considered techno-tasks as an additional and unwanted burden
rather than a legitimate part of the process of doing history. This inadvertent
technophobia (despite my interest in actually using technology in innovative
ways) silently became part of my default identity. But I like the idea that I'm
able to approach historical questions and answers at new scales and with new
perspectives. Even if such methods and their challenges remain
under-appreciated in the profession, I think it's important work, and it's what
I want to do.

For me, not quitting in digital humanities work depends crucially on tackling
one little task at a time with the attitude that it is important work. To be
sure, acquiring tacit knowledge isn't something that can really be checked off
on the to-do list, nor does it (at least right now) make an effective line on
the CV. But I find it useful to remind myself that every frustration, stupid
problem, and waste of time incrementally expands my ability to work
efficiently. And when I finally get something working, it doesn't matter how
long it took or how silly the mistake, the euphoria can be downright addictive.
Whether one decides that such work is truly important--we all get into the
business for different reasons--but it's rather astonishing how much a slight
change in perspective on professional identity can make can make
troubleshooting software version conflicts more like adding a footnote than one
might think.
