---
layout: post
title: John Laudun
---

Your honor, I would like, at the very start of this, to note that I did not
know that overflowing the stack would kill the snake inside my computer. It
took my an awfully long time just to get that python inside my machine and to
get used to talking to it, so, really, if you think about it, it dying was the
last thing I would have wanted.

How'd it happen? Well, sir, it all started ... it all started so long ago that
... well, it gets fuzzy in my mind.

You see, your honor, I am a plain man, a simple man. I don't have mighty
ambitions. I simply want to understand how people think. I've had this
fascination ever since I was a young man and I went off to college and I found
myself taking both philosophy classes and poetry writing classes. In the
writing classes, I eventually wound myself up to want up to write a poem that
was like a cathedral. That is, as you read the poem you would get the same
feeling you got from being in a cathedral—I confess that I was not long back
from my first trip to Europe where I had become quite fixated on rambling
around the interiors of every cathedral in France that I could find.

So I had this idea for this poem, which I never really wrote, because as soon
as I had the idea for the poem, I wondered how it is one could string words
together in such a way as to capture a dynamic experience of space—by this
point my college learning was doing me some good and I was beginning to get
fond of saying things like "dynamic experience"—let alone communicate that
experience to someone else. Luckily for me, in my philosophy classes we had
gotten to phenomenology, and I spent the rest of my college years hoping to
find, if not the answer to then at least the key to unlocking, my question.

Fortunately for me, the federal government, of which I am normally suspicious
as a right-thinking kind of person, your honor understands, decided I needed
more schooling—I guess I wasn't smart enough yet—and so they gave me what
they called a fellowship, because I guess I was a pretty decent fellow, to go
off to a special school for others like me who needed more schooling. About the
only that happened there, your honor, that you are probably going to want to
know about so you can understand how I got in this fix more better is that I
found myself up to my elbows in post-structuralism, and I took to it like a cow
takes to fresh grass after a long winter. (And if you've ever seen those cows
on Reddit, your honor, you know what I mean.) Those post-structuralists, well,
they just seemed like they were asking the kinds of questions that needed
asking: things like what was a text and how did things like texts get made and
how was it we could pass these things we call texts around, like a bottle of
the good stuff on a Saturday night, if you follow me, your honor, and I think
you do—you look like a man who appreciates the finer things in life, if I do
say so myself, sir.

Asking those kinds of crazy questions, and really wanting answers, kind of got
me pushed out of the barn where all those bookish people were hanging out --
and, really, your honor, you should send someone by there and check on them:
some of them don't seem right in the head, if you were to ask me. There were
some other folks, however, folks calling themselves folklorists—so they
seemed all right—that said I should join up with them, and, well, the
government folks said I should keep on going to school, that I still had some
more learning to do. And so I did.

Now this next part gets kind of tricky, your honor, so try to do the best to
follow me, but what happened next, well, it was something else. First off, I
got introduced to all those structuralists that all those other folks I had
read before were all "post" about and I realized that the questions they, those
structuralists I mean, were asking, well they was some kind of questions. There
was this Frenchman, who also makes jeans I think, who was actually talking
about mapping the human mind just from collecting enough texts and
understanding how they operate. And there were a bunch of Russians—I know,
your honor, I was right suspicious of them too, being a right-thinking kind of
individual—but if you had seen the kinds of things you were doing, well you
would thrown in with them just like I did. Those Russians were talking about
taking apart stories like nothing I had ever seen before: they even called the
parts of those stories *functions* your honor, which got real interesting as I
learned more about growing snakes inside my computer.

If I'm lying, I'm dying.

Anyway, your honor, I finally ended my schooling by writing a right technical
dissertation in that there folklore studies where I looked very, very close at
how people talked when they was talking about the past. I went out and
interviewed folks, and I came back and wrote down every word that they had
said. And then I broke those words into lines and I marked each line according
to how they moved about in time inside the story itself. (I still haven't
figured that space things out neither, your honor, just so as you know.) The
three fellers who sat in the room, well, they didn't quite know what to do with
what I had done but they reckoned that folks had spent enough money, including
myself, on getting me schooled properly and it was time for me to go out and
get a job and start paying taxes and things like that.

So I did. I moved to Louisiana, where I wrote a little about this, and a little
about that, but I finally settled on writing a book about guys who make these
crazy boats that can roll up on dry land as sure as a gator does on a sunny
day. What I liked about them was that they were making things, and I was
thoroughly into what is now called the maker movement—don't worry, your
honor, it's not no communists; these are right-thinking people who want to take
back our stuff so as we can do with it as we want, which is about how the
almighty intended it, if you were to ask me. But as I got further and further
along in that work, I realized that I didn't want to study making so much as to
be making things myself. Now, chances of me quitting my job and taking up
welding were mighty slim your honor. I may be fool, but I am not crazy. No,
sir, not crazy. Now, I had, in the past, built some computers, and I had done
some crazy things like trying out that operating system written up by that boy
who plays the piano for Charlie Brown.

What's that, your honor? That the one who totes around a blanket? Yes, sir, I
believe it is. But he must be all right. He plays the piano right nice, and
that operating system he come up with is a doozy.

Now, I kind of thought of myself as being pretty good with words, your honor,
and being so long in school I thought I could string some of them there code
words together and make myself something with that. Well, I have to tell you,
them code words will fight you. It's like trying to give the cat a bath: just
as soon as you think as you got one paw in, another paw shoots straight out.

I tried a couple of different cats, I mean kinds of words, your honor. At
first, because I was hosting my own website using what was then this
new-fangled contraption called WordPress—no, sir, you can't make sandwiches
with it—I thought I might try to learn this language called PHP.

What's that? No, sir, it's not like French. Not at all. You can count on these
here languages to say what they mean, only they don't say what you think, sir.

What's that? No, sir, not PCP, PHP, but I have to tell you that trying to wrap
my head around it made wish it was the former. Only wish, your honor. I'm a
law-abiding man and I would ... Just get back to my story? Yes, sir.

So I gave up on that PHP stuff, but I was still interested in learning how to
make my website run just the way I wanted to run. It's like hot-rodding your
car, if you follow me. I guess I got that in me. So, it wasn't long before I
was trying Ruby, especially when some feller built a train out of it. I tried
building my own train, and as long as I kept to what people told me and I ran
it on my own machine, it seemed mostly to go alright, but whenever I tried to
do anything on my web server ... well, those nice people who provide me with
that service, well, they'd regularly have to kill a runaway process.

What's that, your honor? Do you need to go investigating them? Well, sir, I
don't think so. Those processes lived inside boxes they owned, and so I think
they a right to kill them. I really do. Besides, leave bygones to be bygones, I
always say.

Anyway, a little over three years ago I got invited all the way out to
California so as to build nets of humans, or something like that, and this
fellow Tim Tangherlini—is that Italian? I don't rightly know. He seems
pretty American to me, sir—anyway, this fellow Tim Tangherlini roped a bunch
of us humanists up and had a bunch of smart math and computer types give us
some good talkings to. And, it was like the sheet was lifted from my eyes and I
could see. I can't tell you how excited I was that there was a way for me to
begin to understand how it is we think by modeling that behavior using
computers.

Am I saying you're a computer, sir? No, sir, not at all. Why your dog can do
more than your computer? Is that right? Well, sir, don't get me wrong. I seen
your dog, and he's a right smart hound and he's definitely got a two-duck
mouth, but I'm not talking smart like, or thinking like that. I'm talking about
breaking off the teeniest tiniest of pieces and just beginning, ever so
slightly, to see how it is our minds might work.

And with that as my goal, I pitched myself into learning how to wrestle a snake
like there was no tomorrow. This Python is supposed to be what they call
user-friendly, but I been using it for a while now, sir, and it's not so
friendly.

Well, I say that. It's just a computing language and it's going to do what it
does, and I'm just going to have to learn to think like it does in order to get
it to do what I want to do.

Am I afraid that it will make me into a robot?

No, sir, quite the reverse. I find that as I struggle, and goodness do I
struggle, to understand this stuff, I'm getting better at my human thinking,
too. You just have to. And now I not only want to use this stuff to learn how
we think when we're making cathedrals out of words, but I also want to
understand how we think when we're making programs.

What's that, you think that's kind of a loopy idea? Well, sir, I have been
trying to tell you all this time that it was a loop that got me into this mess.
I'm telling you it's what done overflowed that stack. And when that stack done
overflowed, it caused a fatal error. I didn't kill nothing, I promise. It just
up and died all on its own.

You guess it was just it's time? Yes, sir, I will agree with you on that.

I'm free to go? That's very kind of you, but I have to tell you I'm a little
afraid to go home. What if the stack has overflowed the computer and done
spilled that code all over the house. Gosh almighty, it's gonna be a heck of a
mess.
